Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a Sci-Fi film
called "Equilibrium."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Upon the conclusion of World War 3, the survivors
sought to create a world free of conflict
by suppressing human emotions.
In the city-state of Libria, the leaders,
known as the Tetragrammaton Council, banned
any material that could potentially evoke
strong emotions.
To enforce such a law, the council formed
The Grammaton Cleric, highly-trained soldiers
tasked with hunting down and eliminating sense
offenders.
In a district known as the Nethers, Grammaton
Cleric First Class John Preston takes part
in a raid to stamp out members of the resistance
group called "The Underground."
When the team comes across an unknown number
of resistance members barricading themselves
in a compound, they call Preston to deal with
the persistent rebels.
With firearms in both hands, Preston breaks
the door down and waits in the dark until
the rebels stop firing.
As the insurgents listen for movement, Preston
shoots the rebels in all directions with great
accuracy and efficiency.
After killing all the insurgents at the compound,
they search the buildings for materials rated
"EC-10," objects known to have high emotional
content.
Hidden under the floorboards, they find Leonardo
Da Vinci's painting of the Mona Lisa.
After verifying its authenticity, Preston
orders the men to set it ablaze along with
other forbidden materials.
On their way back to the headquarters, Preston
notices that his partner, Errol Partridge,
had taken a copy of the collection of poems
by William Butler Yeats, so he asks him why
he didn't leave it to the evidentiary team.
Partridge tells him that he wanted to personally
log it himself because the team doesn't always
keep proper records of forbidden materials.
Throughout the city, Father, the reclusive
leader of Libria, makes his appearance in
giant video screens to encourage citizens
to dispense with their emotions by taking
their daily dose of Prozium.
He reminds the people to destroy any material
that would tempt them to feel strong emotions,
noting that they've finally achieved peace
by getting rid of such objects.
Citizens cheer for Father as he concludes
his speech declaring victory against hatred,
war, and human nature itself.
When Preston gets back to the Clerics headquarters,
he reports to Vice-Counsel Dupont, the highest-ranking
member of the Tetragrammaton Council next
to Father.
Dupont commends Preston for his keen ability
to sense when someone feels strong emotions
and asks Preston how he managed to acquire
the unique skill.
Preston explains that he has learned to think
like the offenders by putting himself in their
position.
When Dupont asks about his family, Preston
reveals that his wife has been arrested and
incinerated for being a sense offender some
years ago.
Dupont warns him that it was an egregious
error on Preston's part because he wasn't
able to sense that his own wife had been feeling
strong emotions.
After leaving Duponts office, Preston looks
at the records at the evidentiary department
to find out if Partridge has logged the EC-10
book in his possession.
When he learns that Partridge has not turned
in any evidence for weeks, Preston goes to
the Nethers to find him.
Soon, Preston comes across Partridge reading
Yeats' book inside an abandoned church.
When Preston confronts him, Partridge admonishes
Preston for using words to describe emotions
he never felt.
Partridge laments that everything that makes
them human has been extinguished because of
the council's mandates.
Preston reminds him that there is no war and
murder in the new world that the council has
created, but Partridge contends that he'd
gladly pay a high price as long as humans
are free to feel emotions.
Partridge slowly reaches for his gun.
Preston points his firearm at him and shoots
Partridge in the head as he covers his face
with Yeats' book.
Partridge is immediately replaced by a career-driven
Cleric named Brandt.
After witnessing Preston kill his old partner,
Brandt tells Preston that he hopes to be as
uncompromising as he was.
When Preston gets home, his son, Robbie, tells
him that he saw another boy crying earlier
and asks if he should notify the authorities.
Preston tells him that he should report the
incident without question.
In his sleep, Preston dreams about his wife
when she was arrested for suspicion of being
a sense offender.
When the police barged into their home, Preston
quickly disarmed two men.
Tell him that his wife has been charged with
a sense offense, and they have a warrant to
arrest her.
When he puts his weapon down, his wife kisses
him and tells him not to forget her.
Preston wakes up in the morning and stares
at his wife's empty bed.
As he prepares to brush his teeth, he accidentally
drops a vial of Prozium on the floor, so his
son tells him to stop by the Equilibrium Center
later to get a replacement.
When he arrives at the center, he learns that
the office is temporarily closed due to terrorist
activity.
An announcer tells the citizens to proceed
to the Equilibrium Center in sector 8A to
get their supply of Prozium.
When Brandt fetches him at the Center, Preston
doesn't mention that he wasn't able to replace
his dose.
Preston and Brandt proceed to raid the house
of a sense offender named Mary O'Brien.
Inside a hidden room, they discover an extensive
collection of forbidden items.
Knowing that she would be executed, Mary grabs
an officer's gun and aims it at Preston.
Brandt tries to shoot her, but Preston stops
him, arguing that they still need her to tell
them who her associates are.
During the interrogation, Preston asks Mary
about her acquaintances, but she deflects
by asking Preston about his purpose for living.
Preston tells her that his purpose is to serve
Libria and safeguard the continuity of society.
Mary is unsatisfied with his response, arguing
that his purpose is circular because he is
only living to continue his existence.
She then points out that without emotions,
Preston is just a ticking clock.
……...
When he wakes up one morning, Preston frantically
peels away the tint on the window in his room
to see the sunrise.
After admiring the beauty of the sun rising
across the city, he rushes to the bathroom
and loads a dose of Prozium in the syringe
gun, but he refrains from shooting the drug
into his system.
On his way to the headquarters, he drops several
vials of Prozium on the ground.
Inside the office, he starts rearranging his
desk as Father encourages them on the video
monitor to forget about their individuality
and embrace conformity.
When Brandt asks him what he's doing, Preston
tells him that he's only trying to optimize
his space.
Brandt tells Preston that they have an operation
to eliminate sense offenders in the Nether.
During the raid, a man rushes towards Preston,
so Brandt shoots the rebel.
Preston catches the insurgent and inadvertently
stares into his eyes as his life slowly withers
away.
When he drops the rebel to the ground, he
is distraught by the sight of blood in his
hand.
After the officers kill all the rebels, Preston
discovers a secret room filled with forbidden
items.
As he inspects the objects in the room, he
comes across a vinyl record of Beethoven's
Ninth Symphony and plays it on the turntable.
Upon hearing the first few bars of the Symphony,
Preston drops a snow globe on his hand and
starts to cry.
While the team burns down the contraband inside
the building, Brandt asks Preston why he didn't
turn over a book of nursery rhymes to the
evidentiary team.
Preston tells him that he wants to log it
himself because the team doesn't always do
it properly.
An officer interrupts them to tell them that
they've found dogs at the compound.
Brandt orders the officers to exterminate
all the dogs, but Preston raises an objection.
However, Preston cannot think of a good reason
for his disapproval, so he tells them to go
ahead with the execution.
While the officers shoot the animals one by
one, a puppy runs to Preston.
When he grabs it, he stares at the puppy as
it licks his face.
Preston reluctantly turns it over to the officers,
but he suddenly takes it back and says it
should be tested for diseases.
During a meeting with Dupont, Preston raises
his concerns about the ruthless slaughter
of insurgents, arguing that they should be
apprehended and interrogated instead.
Dupont points out that Father has released
a mandate ordering officers to exterminate
all rebels without any processing.
He stresses that they should follow Father's
orders even though they might disagree with
them.
Inside the evidentiary department, he inspects
Mary's effects and takes a ribbon.
He then goes back to the Nether to release
the dog that he rescued earlier.
When the dog wouldn't leave him, he decides
to put it back in the trunk.
Soon, officers arrive at the area and ask
him for identification.
The ranking officer asks Preston for the keys
to take a look at the trunk, but the officer
soon recognizes Preston, so he apologizes
and hands him back the keys.
But before Preston could take it, the officers
hear the dog yelping inside the trunk.
Upon seeing the dog, the officers order Preston
to get down on his knees.
Preston attacks the men and uses their own
weapons to kill them.
As other men arrive to apprehend him, Preston
takes out his weapons and fires at them relentlessly,
killing them all.
Back at home, Preston hides a few vials of
Prozium behind the mirror before going to
the headquarters.
While he's practicing his sword-fighting skills,
Brandt interrupts him and starts sparring
with him.
Brandt taunts Preston by telling him that
he knows that Preston is thinking of the murders
in the Nether the previous night.
Brandt says that he is glad that it happened
because Father had ordered a crackdown on
the resistance.
After the sparring session, Brandt tells Preston
to get ready because they will be conducting
another raid in the Nether in Sector 7.
During the operation, Preston comes across
a group of rebels, but he lets them go and
leads them to a corridor to hide from the
police and the Clerics.
The insurgents reluctantly follow Preston,
but he soon gains their trust when they see
him defending them.
When another group of officers arrives to
ask Preston about the gunshots, Preston pulls
out his weapons and starts attacking them
while the rebels escape.
After killing the officers, Preston looks
for the rebels, only to find them lined up
for execution.
Brandt asks Preston to shoot the men, but
Preston argues that they should be interrogated.
Brandt surmises that Preston must be low on
ammo, so he gives him his weapon, insisting
that offenders are supposed to be shot on
sight.
Preston takes the weapon, but he hesitates
to shoot.
Finally, he hands the firearm back to Brandt,
saying it will be better for him to hold on
to his own gun.
Brandt orders the police officers to execute
the rebels.
Preston tries to keep a straight face as he
walks away in disappointment from failing
to save the insurgents’ lives.
Preston reports to Dupont to tell him that
he's ready to become Father's instrument against
the resistance.
After the meeting, Preston goes to the morgue
to ask for Partridge's effects before burning
the body in the incinerator.
Inside a thin metal case, he finds several
pictures of people unfamiliar to him, but
one photo with the word "Freedom" written
at the back catches his attention.
Preston visits Mary and asks her about Partridge.
Mary, however, contends that she doesn't hang
around clerics, so Preston shows Mary a photo
of her and Partridge together.
When Preston mentions that he's the one who
killed Partridge, Mary grabs a pen and tries
to stab him.
Preston blocks the attack and stares at her
eyes while pinning her down.
After releasing his grip on Mary, Preston
deduces that they were lovers.
As Preston continues to gather clues about
Partridge's involvement with the resistance,
he learns that his former partner used to
meet regularly with a man named Jurgen.
When he discovers a secret room inside a school
in block 42, Jurgen emerges and tells him
that they've been watching him.
Jurgen takes Preston underground and lets
him see the activities of the people living
there.
To find out where his loyalties lie, Jurgen
puts Preston under a polygraph to make sure
he feels strong emotions.
When Jurgen mentions Mary, the vibrations
on the polygraph machine become stronger.
Jurgen discloses that he knows Preston carries
Mary's ribbon in his pocket and frequently
smells it when no one's looking.
Jurgen asserts that Preston's feelings will
only be satisfied if he allows himself to
fall into Mary.
Preston informs Jurgen that Mary will be incinerated
the next day.
Later, Jurgen warns Preston that emotions
can be destructive without restraint, so some
members of the resistance are forced not to
feel anything.
Preston asks Jurgen what he can do for the
resistance, so Jurgen urges him to kill Father.
After leaving the Underground, police officers
arrest Preston and take him to Dupont, who
tells him that he heard rumors that a Cleric
has decided to stop taking Prozium.
When he asks Preston what he's been doing
with his time lately, Preston tells him that
he's attempting to contact the resistance.
He warns that the council will be doomed once
the Underground compromises the Clerics, so
Preston promises to double his efforts in
infiltrating the rebels.
When he gets home, he leaves another vial
inside the mirror and watches his children
sleep.
Robbie wakes up and sees him holding the syringe
gun.
Preston explains that he's only trying to
make sure that Robbie is taking his daily
dose.
When he meets with Mary the next day, she
realizes that he's not been taking his regular
doses.
Mary senses that Preston is lost and confused,
so she reaches out her hand to him, despite
the risk of the cameras seeing her.
Soon, Preston meets up with Jurgen again to
tell him that assassinating Father would be
impossible because the reclusive leader hasn't
met with anyone face to face in quite a while.
Jurgen argues that Preston is trained for
such an occasion.
Preston, however, is still unsure that anything
will change once Father is dead.
Jurgen assures him that the Underground network
will take action to destroy Prozium labs around
the city.
He stresses that their cause will be won by
human nature if they manage to disrupt the
Prozium supply even by just one day.
Due to Jurgen's determination, Preston agrees
to assassinate Father despite the lack of
means to do it.
As Preston is about to leave the Underground,
Jurgen warns him not to see Mary because it
will only make it hard for him to complete
his new mission.
Preston goes to the office and watches the
preparation for the execution on the video
monitors.
Later on, he decides to watch footage of his
wife's execution.
Distraught by his lack of reaction at that
time, Preston runs to the incineration chamber
to save Mary.
However, when he arrives, the executioner
tells him that the machine turbines have already
been started.
If they open the door, the turbines will cause
an explosion on the streets.
Preston holds back the tears from his eyes
as he listens to the countdown to Mary's incineration.
When he breaks down and cries outside the
building, Brandt arrests him and takes him
to Dupont.
Brandt tells the Vice Counsel that Preston
has been involved with a woman charged with
sense crime, and he was also the one who killed
the officers in the Nether.
Preston reminds Dupont about his mission to
expose the traitor among the Clerics and claims
that he has now brought the man to him.
He then tells Dupont that Brandt is the traitor
that he's been looking for.
When Dupont checks the gun used to kill the
police officers at the Nether, the report
reveals that it was Brandt's gun.
Brandt looks at his firearm and learns that
he has Preston's gun in his possession.
He realizes that Preston switched the firearms
when he asked Preston to execute the rebels.
However, Preston tells Dupont that Brandt
took his firearm when he arrested him.
Dupont orders the men to take Brandt to the
Hall of Destruction for summary judgment and
eventual combustion.
Later, Dupont notifies Preston that he will
order a team to conduct a search on his house
because the law requires it.
Preston agrees, but he tells Dupont that he's
disappointed that he hasn't still met Father
despite being an instrument for the destruction
of the Underground.
Dupont reminds him that Father never grants
an audience to anyone.
Preston runs back home to take the vials of
Prozium hidden behind the mirror as the police
start searching the house.
But much to his surprise, the vials are no
longer there.
Not long, his son enters the bathroom and
shows him the vials in his hand, telling Preston
to be more careful in the future.
Robbie then reveals that he and his sister
have stopped taking Prozium since their mother
was executed.
Preston meets up with the Underground and
calls the Council to tell them that he has
located the resistance.
On the day of his meeting with Father, the
Proctor tells him that he must still undergo
a test before meeting the reclusive leader.
After surrendering his weapon, he undergoes
a polygraph test.
The man conducting the test asks him the easiest
way to take away a weapon from a Grammaton
Cleric.
Before he could respond, Brandt whispers the
answer to his ear, saying, "You ask him for
it."
Father addresses Preston over the video screen,
saying Brandt's arrest was a mere ploy to
make Preston feel like he had won.
Father tells him that he had been trying to
infiltrate the Underground, but he realizes
that he needs a man that will think and feel
like the rebels.
When Father points out that Preston was the
only man who has such an ability, Preston
is puzzled because he has never met Father
before.
Father then reveals himself to be Dupont and
discloses that the real Father had died years
ago.
The council has elected him to replace Father
and continue his traditions.
Preston, infuriated by the deception, pulls
out the guns he concealed in his sleeves and
starts shooting at the men in the room.
Preston warns Dupont that he's coming for
him and goes on a rampage, shooting every
guard that gets in his way.
When Preston reaches Dupont's room, Brandt
is there standing by the Vice-Counsel's side.
After he swiftly kills more of Dupont's guards,
Brandt engages him in a sword fight.
When Brandt takes a swing at him, he strikes
Brandt with three quick slashes, killing Brandt
instantly.
As he drops to the ground, his slashed face
falls off.
Dupont grabs a firearm and attacks Preston,
but Preston manages to grab a gun from the
floor and fends off Dupont's attacks.
Despite Dupont's skills, Preston defeats him
and takes away his weapon.
Fearing death at the hand of Preston, Dupont
pleads with him, confessing that he also feels
emotions just like him and the rebels.
Dupont then asks Preston if killing him would
be worth the price of guilt, knowing that
he has killed a man with feelings.
In response, Preston shoots Dupont in the
head, saying he'll pay the price gladly.
Before leaving the building, Preston destroys
the machines broadcasting Father's messages
across Libria.
Soon, bombs start exploding in Prozium factories
all over the city, signaling the rebels that
it's time to rise against their tyrannical
rulers.